Why developers should choose NoSQL database over SQL?

Since the invention of the term 'database' in 1962 to Apache Spark and Apache Drill (Schemaless SQL) in 2015, the journey of database technology evolution is no less than a roller-coaster ride.

'database' is always going to remain the heart of any application development process, irrespective of your job role, whether you are a devOps, developer or analyst, database is something that you can never escape from. Or in much positive manner I must say the skillset of database design will cram your tech career to the fullest.

Alright, the burning question for today is why developers should opt for NoSQL database over SQL database?

Because... NoSQL is the sollution for every limitation of SQL database
Such as,
-> Data that is very large, such as video. Storing them as object doesn’t work out as  lot of people would like.
-> It doesn’t handle unstructured data very well. Someone may argue that, for handling them SQL is having blob data type, isn't it?. Well yeah... it does, but blob but does not make it easy for searches.
-> SQL can not handle dynamic schema, which means you should have a database design ready befor you start makind tables in your database. NoSQL on the other hand can work on the concept called Dynamic Schema creation. Shcema less arhcitecture allows for frequent changes to the database and easy addition of varied data to the system.


Because... NoSQL can store and handle data which are variety of types
SQL can store data of type Numeric (int, tinyint, bigint, float, real), Date and Time (Date, Time, Datetime), Character and String data types (char, varchar, text). NoSQL can store data of types all of the above mentioned as well as key-value sotes, wide-colun stores, graph database etc.

Because... It is Open Source
Open source is generally much more cost-effective than a proprietary solution. With open source, we can start small and quickly with community versions, and then migrate to a commercially-supported solution as our business requirements. Open source is the future. Web, mobile, and cloud solutions are rapidly built on open source infrastructure.Open-source solutions are less prone to bugs since so many developers are constantly working on the code refactoring and maintenance. So it is always a smart move to go with open source technology. MySQL and PostgreSQL are too open source and SQL based technology.

Because... NoSQL is super massively scallable
A NoSQL is horizontally scalable simply due to the reason that new nodes can be added on the fly without worrying about the consistency of data. NoSQL databases basically chopped off a bunch of query types in order to be easier to scale. Which is why NoSQL is the first choice for Big Data (as it accepts data without predefined schema), and in the areas where our application's database are going to scal massively.

Because... NoSQL runs well on Cloud (Distributed Systems)
NoSQL databases are capable of handling large amounts of structured, unstructured, semi-structured and hybrid data with an amazing performance at reduced complexity and cost. NoSQL databases are highly efficient for storing and accessing of data across multiple storage clusters. For example Google, Facebook, Google+, Google big table, Amazon Dynamo, Twitter etc. collects and stores Terabytes of data for their user every day. NoSQL databases are found suitable for such type of application since it is possible to Scale Up/Scale out the NoSQL databases simply by distributing the database over several hosts or nodes as the load increases.

Because... NoSQL databases are available in different flavors to align with differrent use cases
MongoDB : Use MongoDB if we need dynamic queries, if we need good performance on a big database and when our data changes too much.
Cassandra : Use Cassandra when data we need to store doesn't fit on server. but requires friendly familiar interface to it.
Elasticsearch : Use Elasticsearch when we have objects with flexible fields, and we need "advanced serch" functionality.
CouchDB : use CouchDB when our application requires low-latency data access, high concurrency support and high availability.

Note : 
	Inspite of powerfull features provided by NoSQL, it is not the case that we should replace all SQL based systems with NoSQL. As a wise application developer or a DBA it is up to us that we understand the gravity of situation and choose the database accordingly.
