Why PalmVein is far better biometric input? And how developers can build an application that works with PalmVein scanners?

How palm-scanning identification works :
The scanner emits infrared light. Hemoglobin in the veins absorbs the light...creating an image of the vein pattern that is reflected back and captured by the scanner.
-takes snapshot of palm veins
-converts into algorithm
-compares with database

The scan is stored in a database. A returning user's vein pattern is compared against the database to determine if there is a match.

What are the benefits :
the veins are located beneath the skin’s surface and, furthermore, the scans rely on blood flowing through living humans, palm vein scans are virtually impossible to counterfeit.
The systems are typically contactless, which makes them more hygienic than touch-based systems.
Palm scanners are also more protective of individual privacy than some biometric technologies, such as facial recognition, because a sample cannot usually be captured without the person’s knowledge or consent.

3. Result of experiments
As a result of the Fujitsu research using data from 140,000 palms (70,000 individuals), Fujitsu has confirmed that
the FAR is 0.00008% and the FRR is 0.01%, with the following condition: a person must hold the palm over the
sensor for three scans during registration, and then only one final scan is permitted to confirm authentication.

4. Practical applications
A rapidly increasing problem among financial sectors in Japan is the illegal withdrawal of bank funds using stolen
or skimmed fake bankcards. To address this, palm vein authentication has been utilized for customer confirmation
of transactions at bank windows or ATMs.

Fujitsu palm vein authentication technology offers contactless authentication and provides a hygienic and non-
invasive solution, thus promoting a high-level of user acceptance. Fujitsu believes that a vein print is extremely
difficult to forge and therefore contributes to a high level of security, because the technology measures hemoglobin
flow through veins internal to the body. The opportunities to implement palm vein technology span a wide range of
applications.
